[CIE-5532] Remove doc references for component metrics (#4467)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/edge/edge-operations-bundle/monitoring-edge-metrics.md

---
weight: 15
title: Monitoring
layout: redirect
---
Edge supports monitoring the Edge deployment with Prometheus, an open-source project used to monitor application state. See https://prometheus.io/ for detailed information on Prometheus and how to use it.

The Edge operator exposes a Prometheus-compatible metrics endpoint, `https://<domain>:3443/metrics`, where the domain is the one you configured in the Edge CR.

### Monitoring the Edge metrics from your cloud tenant {#monitoring-the-edge-metrics-from-your-cloud-tenant}

> In your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} cloud tenant, you can monitor the measurements of the Edge listed in the table below. To monitor the measurements from your cloud tenant, ensure that you have registered your Edge with the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} cloud tenant. See [Registering Edge in the cloud tenant](/edge/k8-edge-connecting-edge-to-cloud/#k8-edge-register-edge-on-cloud) for more information.

Reviewer: That link is still 404 - just copy the same URL from the line that was erased above.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/4467/commits/d2f52b200ab67c6616cd8a47bd27bc14a396a47a

---
weight: 15
title: Monitoring
layout: redirect
---

> Edge allows for monitoring of the Edge deployment using Prometheus, an open-source project that is used for monitoring application state. See https://prometheus.io/ for detailed information on Prometheus and how to use it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Edge supports monitoring the Edge deployment with Prometheus, an open-source project used to monitor application state. See https://prometheus.io/ for detailed information on Prometheus and how to use it.
```

> The Edge operator exposes a Prometheus-compatible metrics endpoint, `https://\<domain>:3443/metrics`, where the domain is the one you configured in the Edge CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Edge operator exposes a Prometheus-compatible metrics endpoint, `https://<domain>:3443/metrics`, where the domain is the one you configured in the Edge CR.
```
The backslash is rendering literally

> You can monitor the recommended list of metrics below, with more available at the above endpoint.

Reviewer 3: "with more available at the above endpoint".
Seems that something is missing here

Reviewer: I'd suggest removing this entire line. The main thrust of this PR is removing the very detailed (and outdated) list of metrics, so "list of metrics below" isn't applicable to anything.

> ### Monitoring the Edge metrics from your cloud tenant

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Monitoring the Edge metrics from your cloud tenant {#monitoring-the-edge-metrics-from-your-cloud-tenant}
```

> In your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} cloud tenant, you can monitor the measurements of the Edge listed in the table below. To monitor the measurements from your cloud tenant, ensure that you have registered your Edge with the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} cloud tenant. See [Registering Edge in the cloud tenant](/edge-kubernetes/k8-edge-connecting-edge-to-cloud/#k8-edge-register-edge-on-cloud) for more information.

Reviewer: (/edge-kubernetes/k8-edge-connecting-edge-to-cloud/#k8-edge-register-edge-on-cloud)  is a bad link for me.

@BeateRixen  - Should we consider re-enabling automated linked checking for 2026 PRs?
